Peer Production Participation Project
Wiki Transcripts
Often times, studios that produce movies and TV shows do not release the 
official transcripts. These transcripts are documents that contain 
scenes as they occur on the screen, with each scene having a 
description, and a dialogue between characters. Transcripts.wikia.com is 
a peer production community where people collaborate and contribute to 
writing down transcripts for movies and TV shows which do not have their 
official transcripts released. The website has an extensive list of 
movies, TV shows and their subsequent sequels and/or seasons. The 
community functions on individuals or groups of individuals writing 
material down for every movie or show in a specific format. This can 
most probably be accomplished by going through the movie, or by 
translating subtitle files.
The format for transcripts has been unanimously identified to be split 
into multiple scenes as they occur on screen. These scenes will have a 
description in either italics or in parenthesis, depending on the 
authorâ€™s preference. They will have a dialogue between characters in the 
scene, with name of the character followed by a colon or a dash, 
followed by the line said by the character in question. The community, 
as of now, has over 11000 transcripts. There is also a list of 
incomplete transcripts, where the said author for some reason could not 
complete a transcript. Anybody else can contribute to complete the 
incomplete transcripts. Transcripts can be edited by people, and the 
edits go through an evaluation before actually reflecting on the 
transcript webpage.
I had the opportunity to work on a project where I used this database to 
generate metadata, to be used in a Q&A application. I primarily worked 
with the transcripts for the Harry Potter movie franchise, building a 
program to search through the transcripts to find out what character did 
what. As my work progressed over the weeks, it came to my attention that 
the transcripts have various flaws in their overall structure. There are 
multiple missing entries, and many inaccurate dialogues between 
characters. The transcripts for a particular movie franchise need to 
follow the same format in order to make the data legible. These 
transcripts have inconsistencies where at some places the characters 
have been referenced with their first names, but with their last names 
in other places. This makes it harder for an audience that is new to the 
movie franchise, and especially when the franchise has so many 
characters. Other inconsistencies include grammatical mistakes, swapped 
lines between characters, and insufficient scene descriptions.
I plan to attempt to rectify a few or all of these mistakes in the 
transcripts for all eight movies. This will give me an opportunity to 
engage in a literal peer production community, with one of my 
motivations being increasing the accuracy of my software. I plan to 
identify the said errors by building a python parser which will raise 
exceptions when a certain format is not met. I will then try to fix 
these errors manually by joining the community.


